---
title: '[]{#_9tqsqy90lhvw .anchor}Economy Changes'
---

The economic play of Lost Colonies so far has had a few rough spots. So
we are working on an update and I want to take a moment to share some of
our thinking and then what the updates are. First of all, thank you to
everyone who gave us feedback during and after the March event. We
listened and I hope you like what we have changed.

Our goal with all rules is to make sure that they provide for the most
fun, the most trust,the most player to player interaction as possible,
and the least mindless bookkeeping. We also try to minimize staffing
requirements so that you aren’t left hanging hoping for a storyteller to
walk by.

What we found was that Appraise, Import Export, and Smuggling
specifically were not working out to be as cool as we wanted them to be.
We also found that our pricing structure on component cards was
fundamentally broken. So we are changing things up, hopefully for the
better.

*NOTE: If you feel like any of this is directed at you specifically,
please know that it is not. But also if you feel like any of this has
caused you in game financial problems because of the change, please come
talk to us and we will make it up to you. None of this is because
anything was being exploited or leveraged in a funny way. We just think
that what we had wasn’t achieving the goals we wanted to achieve. Some
of this was based on feedback, some on observations, and we felt that we
could, and should, do better.*

Component Card Changes
----------------------

We are going to remove the Price and Research lines from Component
Cards. No more tables to look up. No more Rarity multiplied by Price
math to do. No more filling out “Known” for every Component.

![](media/image2.png){width="5.2346052055993in"
height="2.9739588801399823in"}

A Component’s Rarity value determines what recipes it can be used in and
also how easy it is to gather it. Going forward it will also be the main
function of how much people will value it. Note that we are not setting
a price tied directly to Rarity anymore though certainly Rarity will
factor into the price that gets set for components and for the items
made from components.

The gathering rules, the transmutation rules, and probably a few other
rules, all are based on the idea that a Rare component is three times
more rare than an Uncommon component. Similarly an Uncommon component is
three times more rare than a Common one. Rare then would be nine times
more rare than a Common is. This might mean that prices will settle down
along those same multiples. For example, if a Common component were to
sell for 5 Par then an Uncommon component might be worth 1 Unum and 5
Par to the same person. However, the Rarity of a Component is not quite
the same as its availability in the current economy, not perfectly
anyway. Since supply and demand can fluctuate as time goes on we will
not be listing exact prices for each Component or each Rarity. Just know
that we will be writing rules under the 1, 3, 9 pattern to make things
consistent within the rules and that it is a pretty good rule of thumb
that everyone should be aware of.

Item Card Changes
-----------------

We will also be dropping Price and Rarity from Item cards, though they
will retain the Research value. This requires less explanation that
Component card changes. The cost of making an item should influence the
price of the Item. If you make an Item for someone you are encouraged to
charge them money to cover your expenses plus make a profit. If you use
an item on someone, perhaps to heal them, you should be encouraged to
ask them to repay you in some fashion. Quid pro quo is a perfectly valid
exchange if all parties are happy with it.

![](media/image1.png){width="5.206492782152231in"
height="2.994792213473316in"}

\
Quartermaster Changes
---------------------

The Quartermaster will still be selling some Components, but will no
longer have everything available all the time. As we mature our
Gathering Systems we will reduce the amount of things the Quartermaster
has to sell as the intention is to make this a player driven economy as
much as possible. But until we get gathering fully ironed out we will
maintain the Quartermaster as a means of players getting the things they
need for crafting.

Going forward the Quartermaster is going to have some secret
information:

1)  Their price list

2)  What they are willing to buy

3)  What they are willing to sell

4)  How much of each thing they have at any given time

5)  The full list of which Commerce Quests are currently available

A couple of notes about this information.

-   We do NOT want to have the Quartermaster be a system that can be
    > manipulated.

-   We do NOT want to encourage or allow players to rush straight to the
    > Quartermaster first thing Friday night and buy up all the stock

-   The Quartermaster is not a get rich quick scheme

-   We DO want Merchants to be able to do business with each other, with
    > crafters, and with other players in a free and fair fashion.

-   We do NOT want people to be cut out from using their skills simply
    > because they were last in line at the Quartermaster. So, if the
    > Quartermaster limits you to buying 2 Steel in one transaction, and
    > then sells 2 Steel to the next person, and the next person, know
    > that we are metering the supply of this commodity so that everyone
    > can get a fair shake.

-   We DO NOT want, or encourage, “Cornering the Market”. This is fun
    > for only one person and it can break other systems.

-   We DO want to be sure that the New Player who just arrived in town
    > can get the things they need to make their craft using the
    > starting money they have been given.

-   Fake Economies have lots of edge and corner cases that can lead to
    > weird things happening. If you find one, please notify us.
    > Exploiting a loophole is not the game we are trying to promote,
    > please resist the urge to get rich quick because of a flaw in our
    > systems.

The intent of our system is to have players go to other players first
for things and that the Quartermaster is recommended as a stopgap, or a
transaction of last resort. The Quartermaster will also do trades
following the 1, 3, 9 rule assuming that the Quartermaster has supplies.
The Quartermaster can also be seen as a way for the game to have a way
to avoid players price gouging each other. Profits are good and fun and
valid. Economic griefing will not be tolerated.

Skill Changes
-------------

Appraise is being renamed to Commerce and being completely re-written as
a skill. If you already had Appraise on your character sheet you now
have Commerce. Here are the new skill write ups for Commerce, Import /
Export, Smuggle, and also the new skill Tycoon!

**Commerce**

**Reqs:** Wits 3

*Quartermaster’s Connection* \[Always, Quest\] You gain the ability to
obtain and complete Commerce Quests from the Quartermaster. Commerce
Quests reward you financially for completing them, and also reward build
to a number of participants including yourself, as listed on the card.
You must complete your current Commerce quest to obtain a new one.

*Market Watch* \[Once Per Event\] You will gain rumors and insight into
supply and demand of the resources of the Colony on your rumors sheet at
Check-in.

**Import / Export**

**Reqs:** Resolve 3

*Port Connections* \[Always\] You gain access to a special Goods
selection, of large purchase of commodities and other items that are
independent of the normal Quartermaster Supply. See the Quartermaster to
see what is for sale.

*Trading Partners* \[One Per Event, Quest\] You may return an Unfinished
Commerce Quest to the Quartermaster and select a new Quest instead.

**Smuggle**

**Reqs:** Resolve 7, Import Export

*Black Market* \[Always\] You gain access to a limited Goods selection
of rare items, finished goods, and other rarities for a very high price.
See the Quartermaster for the list of available items.

*Perfectly Legitimate Business* \[Always, Quest\] You may complete
specialized Smuggling Commerce Quests. These will require strange, rare,
and unusual items to complete, and will reward you with build now, and a
reward next Event you attend. The form of your reward is unknown but you
are guaranteed to receive a payment. You may only have one of these
Quests at a time, and it counts as a Commerce Quest.

**Tycoon**

**Reqs:** Focus 11, Inventory

*Special Order* \[Once Per Rest\] - You may contact supplies through the
Quartermaster to obtain an Item Card called “Bundle for X” where X is
the name of a single Ritual or Recipe. The Item Card counts as all of
the required Components to complete that single Ritual or Recipe once.
The price for this item will be at a significant premium. Within the
next 15 minutes, you will gain the item.

*Credit Line* \[Always, Quest\] You may have two Commerce Quests active
at the same time.

Commerce Quests
---------------

Commerce Quests will come in three general levels, small, medium, and
large. They won’t be labeled as such, but that is how we are designing
them and we will use that terminology in this explanation of intent.

A Commerce Quest represents an order placed by the Colony, a Guild, or
another entity, for supplies. If you have the Commerce or Smuggle skill
you can report to the Quartermaster to get one Commerce Quest at a time.
Once you have Tycoon you can have two at a time. Import Export also lets
you “trade in” a commerce quest by essentially passing the contract off
to an outside supplier so that you can get a better opportunity to
complete a different Commerce Quest yourself.

Small commerce quests might ask for a list of Components that need to be
gathered and what compensation completing the quest comes with. You
complete a Commerce Quest by turning in all of the matching Component or
Item cards to the Quartermaster. To simplify the process and reduce the
number of Item cards written simply to turn in to the Quartermaster, the
Commerce Quest will have spaces for crafters to fill in their
information.

So… the Merchant who picks up the Commerce Quest from the Quartermaster
will find all of the necessary Items, or Crafters and Components,
necessary to complete the contract. They can turn in either Item cards
or have the Crafters sign the Contract. This is easier to explain with
an example….

Here is a link to one example:

[*https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jmjxD6PKF9rZJkho-rMVr\_jDoB5rpw7QslWXHWeUdbI/edit?usp=sharing*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jmjxD6PKF9rZJkho-rMVr_jDoB5rpw7QslWXHWeUdbI/edit?usp=sharing)
